So this is just going to be a quick demo
on how to create and edit a R marked down document so you can see I got RStudio
launched here and nothing's open. So I'm just going to start up create
a new document in our mark down so I can go to the menu here and there's a couple of options of
different types of files you can open. So I'm going to create
an R markdown file and you can see that actually it starts right
at RStudio actually populates the document with a little bit of kind of filler
material just to get you started. So in case you're not
familiar with mark down, you can see a little bit of how it's done. So let me just show you
the whole thing here and I think the easiest thing to do right now
just let we can just knit this document we can run the document through Knitter. It's going to run the our code. It's going to produce the markdown file. It's going to convert
the markdown found HTML and then launch it in RStudio's
little web browser. So why don't we just click
on the knit HTML button? And see what happens. So I first have to save this file. So I'll just call it markdown demo. And I'll use the file extension rmd,
which is traditional. But not necessary. You can see it's running,
processing the file and it produces this nice HTML output. So you can see it matches the title. It has the text is just plain text. The R code is in put in the gray boxes and the output from the R
code is right below it. There's more R code here
which is the plot and you see the plot just appears right here. So it's nice in that this document here, which only has R code in it can be
evaluated and the output can be embedded inside the output document without you
having to create a plot separately and then kind of include it and
then you get a nice document like this. So but this obviously is not
the document that we wanted to write. So the first thing you're going
to have to do typically is just erase everything here. So the first thing you want to do is
probably start to put some sort of title in so you can call it something
like my first R markdown file. And if you put this kind
of equal sign under here, that'll make it look like a title and then
also and then you can add some text here. This is my first R markdown file. Here is we're going to load some data. And then here I'm going
to add some R code. I want to load some data to either
plot it or maybe fit a model. So the first thing you want to do
is is three back ticks here and with the curly braces you can wrap the
the letter r in curly braces lowercase R. Now you can see how the highlighting
changed a little bit in the editor. So now I'm going to be
writing R code right? So maybe the first thing I want to do is
I'll load the air quality data set from R which is a very basic data
set that has data on ozone. So I'm going to load it
from the datasets library. Sorry the datasets package. It's called air quality. And I'll just call summary on it. Just to see what it's about. Okay, so now I can close the R code
chunk with three back ticks again. You can see that the format
the highlighting changes now to just plain text. Okay. So the first code chunk it basically
loads the datasets package loads the air quality data set which is a data frame and
then gives me a little summary and then maybe the next thing I want
to do is do a summary plot. So I'm going to open another R chunk and
I'm going to take my air quality data set. I'm going to call pairs on it and
make a pairs plot. Who knows what that will look like? Probably you want to have a little
descriptive text here just so I'm not flying blind here. So, let's see. So now I'm going to make
a pairs plot of the data. So I'm going to save this file. I can also hit Apple S on Mac and
I'm going to hit I'm going to knit it so you can see it processes,
the process of the file and here you can see the R code that I wrote. Here's the summary which is just for
each column in the data frame. It just gives me a little kind of
five number summary plus the mean and tells me how many NAs there are in each
if there are any so you can see that for example, the median ozone is 31.5 and
the median wind is 9.7, and the median solar radiation is 205. So that's just a little
bit of summary data. I can make you look at the pairs plot at
the data right here when I saw I called the pair's function on the whole
data frame and you see that all the pairwise bivariate relationships
between all the variables in the data set. So you see it's not a very large data set. There are only six variables in it and I
can see how they're related to each other. So lastly I might want to fill
a little regression model so here's a regression model. Of ozone on wind solar radiation and
temperature. So I'll start a code chunk again three back ticks and the R in curly braces. I'm going to fit a regression model here. So I need the stats package. Typically the stats package will be
loaded already when you start up R but just to be safe I'll load it explicitly. And I want to fit a model here so
I'm going to call the LM function. I'll say ozone is related to wind solar radiation and temperature and the dataset is the air quality data. And then I'm going to summarize this fit
because I want to look at regression coefficients and standard errors and
P values and things like that. So I'll close that code chunk. I'll save my file. So let me just double check that I save
it yes I did and then I'll admit it. And now you can see after
the pairs plot if I scroll down. I've got my regression model fitting code
so you can always reproduce the code if you want by just kind of cutting and
pasting that code in there and you can see the output from
the regression model is right here. So it seems that all three of
those variables wind, solar, radiation and temperature all
appear to be associated with ozone. So this is a quick demo of how
you can start an R markdown file. Basically you have to know how to write
text which is fairly straightforward and you have to know how to write R code which
hopefully you do after this course and then once you know how to do that you
can mix and match these things together. There are a couple other important
formatting elements that you can check out on the website that I
pointed to in the slides. For example here, you can write
an unordered list so like this and you don't have to do much thinking
about it you just start adding things. And then you get yourself
an unordered list. So if I save this and then knit it up. See everything else
before looks the same but I got my little unordered list
down here which is using bullets. So there are a couple other
formatting elements like that. You can add raw HTML and if you're
familiar with latec using the Knitter package, you can also have latec in it so
you can add mathematical annotation. So that's a quick demo of R markdown. So check out RStudio and
you can start editing your first R markdown file in the editor and
see how it looks.